---
layout: post
title: "Books I read in 2015"
date: "2016-01-01"
---

This is a complete list of the book I finished in 2015 and my [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/1052801-ken) rating. I read 102 books this year. My goal was 80, but once I was underway I picked up some steam and got to more than 100. All of the 4 and 5 star books are highly recommended.

### December 2015

**[Mortality](http://amzn.to/227Mx9v)** by Christopher Hitchens ★★★★★ _In a series of essays, the late Christopher Hitchens talks openly about being afflicted with cancer._

**[The Screaming Staircase (Lockwood & Co., #1)](http://amzn.to/1m29Osl)** by Jonathan Stroud ★★★★ _Young ghost hunters keep London safe. Not up to Stroud's Bartimaeus books, but a good read nonetheless._

**[The Lady in the Car with Glasses and a Gun](http://amzn.to/1IVRw1b)** by Sébastien Japrisot ★★★★ _In this French noir novel Dany Longo is on the road in a Thunderbird and confused about her possible involvement in a murder._

**[Escape from Camp 14: One Man's Remarkable Odyssey from North Korea to Freedom in the West](http://amzn.to/1OTYYOT)** by Blaine Harden ★★★★ _The story of Shin Dong-hyuk's life in a North Korean prison camp and his unlikely escape and flight to the West._

**[The Gold Cell](http://amzn.to/1PSAZ5O)** [by Sharon Olds](http://amzn.to/1PSAZ5O) ★★★★ _A collection of poems documenting relationships, abuse, marriage and parenting._

**[The Wild Truth: The Untold Story of Sibling Survival](http://amzn.to/1IuLTMs)** by Carine McCandless ★★★★ _A companion book to Jon Krakauer's Into the Wild, Chris McCandless' sister Carine clears the air and sets the record straight concerning a troubled upbringing in an abusive home._

**[Landline](http://amzn.to/1m2gfMe)** by Rainbow Rowell ★★★★ _Georgie McCool uses a magic phone to call her husband in the past and, with this plot device, examine her troubled marriage._

* * *

### November 2015

**[Stasiland: Stories from Behind the Berlin Wall](http://amzn.to/1IuLNo2)** by Anna Funder ★★★★ _Stories of surveillance, detention and resistance in the police state behind the Berlin wall._

**[Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience and Redeption](http://amzn.to/1IuLLMY)** by Laura Hillenbrand ★★★★★ _This is a story of extraordinary athletic achievement, the valor of an army airman, survival at sea and a harrowing POW experience. Written alone, any of these stories would make for an amazing book. That this all happened to one man is unimaginable and heartbreaking._

**[What Stands in a Storm: Three Days in the Worst Superstorm to Hit the South's Tornado Alley](http://amzn.to/1m2g7MP)** by Kim Cross ★★★★ _A chilling account of the April 27, 2011 tornado outbreak that devastated communities across the southeast, killing 243 people in Alabama and a total of 348 people across the region. I was hoping this book would finally pay attention to the many small Alabama communities that suffered greatly on that day. But unfortunately it suffers from the same flaw as the media coverage following the storm, focusing too narrowly on the storms of central Alabama. A broader telling is still needed._

**[Girl in a Band](http://amzn.to/1m2g3ge)** by Kim Gordon ★★★ _This book will be of most interest to Sonic Youth fans. My least favorite of the rock autobiographies I've recently read._

**[The Slaves' War: The Civil War in the Words of Former Slaves](http://amzn.to/1IuLz0n)** by Andrew Ward ★★★★ _Through a compilation of interviews conducted after the Civil War, former slaves tell of their experiences during and just after the war. Compelling stuff._

**[Submission](http://amzn.to/1SzOwMZ)** by Michel Houellebecq ★★★★★ _François suffers mid-life melancholy as he ponders his position as a lecturer in Paris. At the same time the social landscape of France changes when the Islamic party takes over the government. With subtle satire this book pushes buttons on the politicial left and right._

**[The Crossing](http://amzn.to/1YbaR7h)** by Michael Connelly ★★★★★ _Retired LAPD Detective Harry Bosch gets involved when his half-brother, defense attorney Mickey Haller, is convinced he has an innocent client. Michael Connelly delivers again in this fast-paced drama._

**[So You've Been Publicly Shamed](http://amzn.to/1QAhgqm)** by Jon Ronson ★★★★ _If the Internet never forgets, then a public shaming can live forever. And unravel a life. This is a scary topic that, unfortunately, is not covered thoroughly here. It's at its best when it documents the lives destroyed from imprudent or badly worded jokes. But the book flounders when it heads off on loosely related tangents that don't really add to the topic. Left unexplored are the implications of public shaming being used increasingly to shut down open discussion of social and political issues._

**[The Curious Case of Benjamin Button: And Other Stories](http://amzn.to/1lkHz8d)** by F. Scott Fitzgerald ★★★★ _A nice collection of F. Scott Fitzgerald short stories, my favorite being Babylon Revisited._

**[Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids](http://amzn.to/1HGfYmp)** by Kenzaburo Oe ★★★★ _Abandoned and trapped in a village, a group of Japanese reformatory boys try to make the best of the situation. But death and distrustful adults undo their efforts. This is Oe's first novel, written in 1958._

**[Orange It the New Black](http://amzn.to/1Y0D6FT)** by Piper Kerman ★★★★ _Piper does the time for her crime and deals with the inanity of institutional life. Because the characters have familiar names and attributes the book resembles the Netflix series. But in the book the characters are more sympathetic and the drama less dramatic._

**[Ghettoside: A True Story of Murder in America](http://amzn.to/1PjzFbL)** by Jill Leovy ★★★★ _When this book recounts real-life homicide cases from murder-plagued South Central Los Angeles it reads like a gripping crime novel. But the explanations for "root causes" seem incomplete and preachy. Still, I highly recommend it._

**[Rabbit, Run](http://amzn.to/1kx3iZP)** by John Updike ★★★ _Rabbit Angstrom finds unhappiness at every turn. I found the prose difficult to get through._

**[The American Mission](http://amzn.to/1l9KaBS)** by Matthew Palmer ★★★ _Trouble with a mining company in the Congo. A rather ordinary suspense/thriller._

* * *

### October 2015

**[The Dark Tower](http://amzn.to/1M2WdcR)** by Stephen King ★★★★★ _After seven books and 3,914 pages Roland Deschain’s quest for the Dark Tower comes to an end. I liked the ending and thought it was worth the long read._

**[10% Happier](http://amzn.to/1kHA5LY)** by Dan Harris ★★★ _Spoiler alert: Meditation. Harris spends a lot of time talking about himself before getting to the point._

**[An Abundance of Katherines](http://amzn.to/1Y0FmNp)** by John Green ★★★

**[Song of Susannah](http://amzn.to/1GTOsXX)** by Stephen King ★★★★★

* * *

### September 2015

**I’ll Mature When I’m Dead: Dave Barry’s Amazing Tales of Adulthood** by Dave Barry ★★★

**Last Words** by Michael Koryta ★★★★

**Catch Me If You Can** by Frank W. Abagnale ★★★★

**Of Mice and Men** by John Steinbeck ★★★★★

**Wolves of the Calla** by Stephen King ★★★★★

**I Am Malala: The Girl Who Stood Up for Education and Was Shot by the Taliban** by Malala Yousafzai ★★★★★

**13 Hours: The Inside Account of What Really Happened in Benghazi** by Mitchell Zuckoff ★★★★

**Essays After Eighty** by Donald Hall ★★★★★

**The Last Lecture** by Randy Pausch ★★★★

**The Girl on the Train** by Paula Hawkins ★★★★

* * *

### August 2015

**The Bell Jar** by Sylvia Plath ★★★★

**Cujo** by Stephen King ★★★★

**Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX and the Quest for a Fantastic Future** by Ashlee Vance ★★★★★

**The Filter Bubble: What the Internet is Hiding From You** by Eli Pariser ★★★★

**The Innocent** by David Baldacci ★★★

**Wizard and Glass** by Stephen King ★★★★

**The Other Wes Moore: One Name, Two Fates** by Wes Moore ★★★

**A Constellation of Vital Phenomena** by Anthony Marra ★★★★★

* * *

### July 2015

**Lost in Shangri-La: A True Story of Survival, Adventure, and the Most Incredible Rescue Mission of World War II** by Mitchell Zuckoff ★★★★

**Under the Same Sky: A Memoir of Survival, Hope and Faith** by Joseph Kim ★★★★

**World Order** by Henry Kissinger ★★★★★

**Marathon Man** by William Goldman ★★★

**The Last Town** by Blake Crouch ★★★★

**Robogenesis** by Daniel H. Wilson ★★★★

**We Were Liars** by E. Lockhart ★★★

**The Decisive Moment** by Henri Cartier-Bresson ★★★★★

**Color: American Photography Transformed** by Amon Carter Museum of American Art ★★★★

**The Dying Animal** by Philip Roth ★★★★

**Euphoria** by Lily King ★★★★

**The Interestings** by Meg Wolitzer ★★★★

* * *

### June 2015

**Finders Keepers** by Stephen King ★★★★

**Hold Still: A Memoir with Photographs** by Sally Man ★★★★★

**Wayward** by Blake Crouch ★★★★

**Under the Skin** by Michel Faber ★★★★★

**Pines** by Blake Crouch ★★★★

* * *

### May 2015

**The Racketeer** by John Grisham ★★★★

**Bending the Frame: Photojournalism, Documentary, and the Citizen** by Fred Ritchin ★★★

**Radiant Angel** by Nelson DeMille ★★★★★

**The New World: A Novel** by Chris Adrian ★★★

**Food: A Love Story** by Jim Gaffigan ★★★★

**Beatles '64 A Hard Day's Night In America** by A.J.S. Rayl ★★★★

**The Beautiful and Damned** by F. Scott Fitzgerald ★★★★★

**Nothing to Lose** by Lee Child ★★★

**First They Killed My Father: A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers** by Loung Ung ★★★★★

* * *

### April 2015

**Z: A Novel of Zelda Fitzgerald** by Therese Anne Fowler ★★★★

**The Waste Lands** by Stephen King ★★★★

**Where'd You Go, Bernadette** by Maria Semple ★★★★

**The Big Sleep** by Raymond Chandler ★★★

**Dead Wake: The Last Crossing of the Lusitania** by Erik Larson

* * *

### March 2015

**Imperium: A Novel of Ancient Rome** by Robert Harris ★★★★★

**Brain on Fire: My Month of Madness** by Susannah Cahalan ★★★★

**The Drawing of the Three** by Stephen King ★★★★

**Looking at Photographs: 110 Pictures from the Collection of the Museum of Modern Art** by John Szarkowski ★★★★

**The Giver** by Louis Lowry ★★★

**Night** by Elie Wiesel ★★★★★

**Station Eleven** by Emily St. John Mandel ★★★★★

* * *

### February 2015

**Alabama 24/7** by Rick Smolan ★★★

**Reflection of a Man: The Photographs of Stanley Marcus** by Stanley Marcus ★★★★

**Revival** by Stephen King ★★★★

**The Democratic Forest** by William Eggleston ★★★★

**The Photographer's Eye** by John Szarkowski ★★★★

**Lone Survivor: The Eyewitness Account of Operations Redwing and the Lost Heroes of SEAL Team 10** by Marcus Luttrell ★★★★

**Leaving the Atocha Station** by Ben Lerner ★★★★

**Just Ride: A Radically Practical Guide to Riding Your Bike** by Grant Petersen ★★★★

**The Poisonwood Bible** by Barbara Kingsolver ★★★★★

* * *

### January 2015

**The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up** by Marie Kondo ★★★★★

**Ping Pong Conversations: Alec Soth with Francesco Zanot** by Francesco Zanot ★★★★★

**Henri Cartier-Bresson: The Mind's Eye: Writings on Photography and Photographers** by Henri Cartier-Bresson ★★★★

**The Glass Room** by Simon Mawer ★★★★

* * *

_Photograph: Bookcase at Frank Lloyd Wright's Rosenbaum House in Florence, Alabama._
